Edge Gateway L2 VPN Tunnel resource and datasource (#1121)
vmware/terraform-provider-vcd: website/docs/r/nsxt_edgegateway_l2_vpn_tunnel.html.markdown

---
layout: "vcd"
page_title: "VMware Cloud Director: vcd_nsxt_edgegateway_l2_vpn_tunnel"
sidebar_current: "docs-vcd-resource-nsxt-edgegateway-l2-vpn-tunnel"
description: |-
  Provides a resource to manage NSX-T Edge Gateway L2 VPN Tunnel sessions and their configurations.
---

# vcd\_nsxt\_edgegateway\_l2\_vpn\_tunnel

> Supported in provider *v3.11+* and VCD *10.2+* with NSX-T

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Supported in provider *v3.11+* and VCD *10.4+* with NSX-T
```
Provider 3.11 can't work with VCD 10.2

Author: Updated

Provides a resource to manage NSX-T Edge Gateway L2 VPN Tunnel sessions and their configurations.

## Example Usage (Both server and client tunnel sessions connecting both Edge Gateways)

```hcl
resource "vcd_nsxt_edgegateway_l2_vpn_tunnel" "server-session" {
  org = "datacloud"

  edge_gateway_id = data.vcd_nsxt_edgegateway.server-testing.id

  name        = "server-session"
  description = "example description"

  session_mode             = "SERVER"
  enabled                  = true
  connector_initiator_mode = "ON_DEMAND"

  # must be sub-allocated on the Edge Gateway
  local_endpoint_ip  = "10.10.50.2"
  tunnel_interface   = "192.168.0.1/24"
  remote_endpoint_ip = "1.2.2.3"

  stretched_network {
    network_id = data.vcd_routed_network_v2.test_network_server.id
  }

  pre_shared_key = "secret_passphrase"
}

resource "vcd_nsxt_edgegateway_l2_vpn_tunnel" "client-session" {
  org = "datacloud"

>   # Note that this is different, as one edge gateway can only function

Reviewer: Different from what?

Author: Updated

  # in SERVER or CLIENT mode.
  edge_gateway_id = data.vcd_nsxt_edgegateway.client-testing.id

  name        = "client-session"
  description = "example description"

  session_mode = "CLIENT"
  enabled      = true

  # must be sub-allocated on the Edge Gateway
  local_endpoint_ip  = "101.22.30.3"
  remote_endpoint_ip = "1.2.2.3"

  stretched_network {
    network_id = data.vcd_routed_network_v2.test_network_client.id
    # CLIENT sessions need to define a tunnel ID for every stretched network
    tunnel_id = 1
  }

  stretched_network {
    network_id = data.vcd_routed_network_v2.test_network_client_other.id
    tunnel_id  = 2
  }

>   # Be aware, that if there are changes in the `server-session`, the peer_code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Be aware that if there are changes in the `server-session`, the peer_code
```

Author: Fixed

>   # will be updated aswell, so `terraform apply` needs to be run twice

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # will be updated as well, so `terraform apply` needs to run twice
```

	* `RESPOND_ONLY` - Local endpoint shall only respond to incoming tunnel setup 
  requests, it shall not initiate the tunnel setup.
	* `ON_DEMAND` - In this mode local endpoint will initiate tunnel creation once 
  first packet matching the policy rule is received, and will also respond to 
  incoming initiation requests.
* `local_endpoint_ip` - (Required) The IP address corresponding to the Edge 
  Gateway the tunnel is being configured on. The IP must be sub-allocated 
  on the Edge Gateway.
* `remote_endpoint_ip` - (Required) The IP address of the remote endpoint, which 
corresponds to the device on the remote site terminating the VPN tunnel.
* `tunnel_interface` - (Optional) The network CIDR block over which the session 
  interfaces. Relevant only for SERVER session modes. If not provided, Cloud 
  Director will attempt to automatically allocate a tunnel interface.
* `pre_shared_key` - (Required for `SERVER` sessions) The key that is used for 
  authenticating the connection, only needed for `SERVER` sessions.
* `peer_code` - (Optional) Encoded string that contains the whole configuration 
  of a `SERVER` session, including the pre-shared key, so it is user's 

>   responsibility to secure it.

Reviewer: We should say where we can get this information from, and whether we need to encode it somehow (the resource description mentions Base64

    tunnel_id = 1
  }

  stretched_network {
    network_id = data.vcd_routed_network_v2.test_network_client_other.id
    tunnel_id  = 2
  }

  # Be aware, that if there are changes in the `server-session`, the peer_code
  # will be updated aswell, so `terraform apply` needs to be run twice
  peer_code = vcd_nsxt_edgegateway_l2_vpn_tunnel.server-session.peer_code
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `org` - (Optional) The name of organization to use, optional if defined at 
  provider level. Useful when connected as sysadmin working across different organisations
* `edge_gateway_id` - (Required) The ID of the edge gateway (NSX-T only). 
  Can be looked up using `vcd_nsxt_edgegateway` datasource
* `name` - (Required) The name of the tunnel.
* `description` - (Optional) The description of the tunnel.
* `session_mode` - (Required) Mode of the tunnel session (SERVER or CLIENT)
* `enabled` - (Optional) State of the `SERVER` session, always set to `true` for `CLIENT` 
  sessions.
* `connector_initiator_mode` - (Required for `SERVER` sessions) Mode in which 
  the connection is formed. Only relevant to `SERVER` sessions. One of:

> 	* `INITIATOR` - Local endpoint initiates tunnel setup and will also respond to 

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this is an issue with quotes or a problem with GitHub, the sentence is highlighted:

<img width="701" alt="Screenshot 2023-09-28 at 17 06 05" src="https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/assets/11330689/f907fed5-d8d8-45db-95a3-0cc58cfbc6f6">

Author: <img width="676" alt="image" src="https://github.com/vmware/terraform-provider-vcd/assets/16798732/07a9a323-6514-41f9-b335-0918e29fada4">
It renders fine on Terraform's [doc-preview](https://registry.terraform.io/tools/doc-preview) page, so it's probably just GitHub

corresponds to the device on the remote site terminating the VPN tunnel.
* `tunnel_interface` - (Optional) The network CIDR block over which the session 
  interfaces. Relevant only for SERVER session modes. If not provided, Cloud 
  Director will attempt to automatically allocate a tunnel interface.
* `pre_shared_key` - (Required for `SERVER` sessions) The key that is used for 
  authenticating the connection, only needed for `SERVER` sessions.
* `peer_code` - (Optional) Encoded string that contains the whole configuration 
  of a `SERVER` session, including the pre-shared key, so it is user's 
  responsibility to secure it.
* `stretched_network` - (Optional) One or more stretched networks for the tunnel. 
  See [`stretched_network`](#stretched-network) for more detail.

## Stretched network

* `network_id` - (Required) Network ID of a routed network on the Edge Gateway. 
  Can be looked up using [`vcd_routed_network_v2`](/providers/vmware/vcd/latest/docs/resources/nsxt_edgegateway_l2_vpn_tunnel) 
  datasource.
* `tunnel_id` - (Optional) Tunnel ID of the network on the tunnel, required for 
  `CLIENT` sessions, computed for `SERVER` sessions.

> 

Reviewer 2: Nit: extra new line.

Author: Removed

## Importing

~> The current implementation of Terraform import can only import resources into the state.
It does not generate configuration. [More information.](https://www.terraform.io/docs/import/)

An existing L2 VPN Tunnel configuration can be [imported][docs-import] into this resource
via supplying path for it. An example is

> below:

Reviewer 2: Nit: this line could be part of the line above.

Author: Updated

  requests, it shall not initiate the tunnel setup.
	* `ON_DEMAND` - In this mode local endpoint will initiate tunnel creation once 
  first packet matching the policy rule is received, and will also respond to 
  incoming initiation requests.
* `local_endpoint_ip` - (Required) The IP address corresponding to the Edge 
  Gateway the tunnel is being configured on. The IP must be sub-allocated 
  on the Edge Gateway.
* `remote_endpoint_ip` - (Required) The IP address of the remote endpoint, which 
corresponds to the device on the remote site terminating the VPN tunnel.
* `tunnel_interface` - (Optional) The network CIDR block over which the session 
  interfaces. Relevant only for SERVER session modes. If not provided, Cloud 
  Director will attempt to automatically allocate a tunnel interface.
* `pre_shared_key` - (Required for `SERVER` sessions) The key that is used for 
  authenticating the connection, only needed for `SERVER` sessions.
* `peer_code` - (Optional) Encoded string that contains the whole configuration 
  of a `SERVER` session including the pre-shared key so it is user's 
  responsibility to secure it. Computed for `SERVER` sessions, required for 

>   `CLIENT` sessions. See [example](#example-usage-both-server-and-client-tunnel-sessions-connecting-two-edge-gateways) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `CLIENT` sessions. See [example](#example-usage) 
```

  for a solution implemented fully in Terraform.
* `stretched_network` - (Optional) One or more stretched networks for the tunnel. 
  See [`stretched_network`](#stretched-network) for more detail.

## Stretched network

* `network_id` - (Required) Network ID of a routed network on the Edge Gateway. 

>   Can be looked up using [`vcd_routed_network_v2`](/providers/vmware/vcd/latest/docs/resources/nsxt_edgegateway_l2_vpn_tunnel) 

Author: Thanks for spotting, fixed!

  datasource.
* `tunnel_id` - (Optional) Tunnel ID of the network on the tunnel, required for 
  `CLIENT` sessions, computed for `SERVER` sessions.

## Importing

~> The current implementation of Terraform import can only import resources into the state.
It does not generate configuration. [More information.](https://www.terraform.io/docs/import/)

An existing L2 VPN Tunnel configuration can be [imported][docs-import] into this resource

> via supplying path for it. An example is below:

Reviewer: We need to supply the minimal HCL code needed to import the resource.
See for example:
https://registry.terraform.io/providers/vmware/vcd/latest/docs/resources/catalog_media#importing

Author: Added, thanks

[docs-import]: https://www.terraform.io/docs/import/

```

> terraform import vcd_nsxt_edgegateway_l2_vpn_tunnel.imported `my-org.my-vdc-or-vdc-group.my-edge-gateway.l2_vpn_tunnel`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
terraform import vcd_nsxt_edgegateway_l2_vpn_tunnel.imported my-org.my-vdc-or-vdc-group.my-edge-gateway.l2_vpn_tunnel
```

Author: Thanks for spotting, fixed

---
layout: "vcd"
page_title: "VMware Cloud Director: vcd_nsxt_edgegateway_l2_vpn_tunnel"
sidebar_current: "docs-vcd-resource-nsxt-edgegateway-l2-vpn-tunnel"
description: |-
  Provides a resource to manage NSX-T Edge Gateway L2 VPN Tunnel sessions and their configurations.
---

# vcd\_nsxt\_edgegateway\_l2\_vpn\_tunnel

> Supported in provider *v3.11+* and VCD *10.4+* with NSX-T

Author: Fixed, thanks

Provides a resource to manage NSX-T Edge Gateway L2 VPN Tunnel sessions and their configurations.
<a id="example-usage"></a>
## Example Usage (Both server and client tunnel sessions connecting two Edge Gateways)

```hcl
data "vcd_org_vdc" "existing" {
  name = "existing-vdc"
}

data "vcd_nsxt_edgegateway" "server-testing" {
  owner_id = data.vcd_org_vdc.existing.id
  name     = "server-testing"
}

data "vcd_nsxt_edgegateway" "client-testing" {
  owner_id = data.vcd_org_vdc.existing.id
  name     = "client-testing"
}

resource "vcd_nsxt_edgegateway_l2_vpn_tunnel" "server-session" {
  org             = "datacloud"
  edge_gateway_id = data.vcd_nsxt_edgegateway.server-testing.id

  name        = "server-session"
  description = "example description"

  session_mode             = "SERVER"
  enabled                  = true

>   connector_initiator_mode = "ON_DEMAND"

Author: Updated, thanks

  # must be sub-allocated on the Edge Gateway
  local_endpoint_ip  = "10.10.50.2"
  tunnel_interface   = "192.168.0.1/24"
  remote_endpoint_ip = "1.2.2.3"

  stretched_network {

>     network_id = data.vcd_routed_network_v2.test_network_server.id

Author: Updated, thanks

  }

  pre_shared_key = "secret_passphrase"
}

resource "vcd_nsxt_edgegateway_l2_vpn_tunnel" "client-session" {
  org = "datacloud"

>   # Note that this is a different edge gateway, as one edge gateway

Reviewer 2: Please use same capitalization of edge gateway in the same code sample :) (See line 43). BTW, it's fine to leave lower case in such comments. Please double check other samples for consistency as well.

Author: Agree, still changed everything to `Edge Gateway` for consistency, thanks

  # can function only in SERVER or CLIENT mode
  edge_gateway_id = data.vcd_nsxt_edgegateway.client-testing.id

  name        = "client-session"
  description = "example description"

  session_mode = "CLIENT"
  enabled      = true

  # must be sub-allocated on the Edge Gateway
  local_endpoint_ip  = "101.22.30.3"
  remote_endpoint_ip = "1.2.2.3"

  stretched_network {

>     network_id = data.vcd_routed_network_v2.test_network_client.id

Author: Updated, thanks

    # CLIENT sessions need to define a tunnel ID for every stretched network
    tunnel_id = 1
  }

  stretched_network {

>     network_id = data.vcd_routed_network_v2.test_network_client_other.id

Author: Updated, thanks

    tunnel_id  = 2
  }

  # Be aware that if there are changes in the `server-session`, the peer_code
  # will be updated as well, so `terraform apply` needs to run twice
  peer_code = vcd_nsxt_edgegateway_l2_vpn_tunnel.server-session.peer_code
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `org` - (Optional) The name of organization to use, optional if defined at 
  provider level. Useful when connected as sysadmin working across different organisations
* `edge_gateway_id` - (Required) The ID of the edge gateway (NSX-T only). 
  Can be looked up using [`vcd_nsxt_edgegateway`](/providers/vmware/vcd/latest/docs/data-sources/nsxt_edgegateway) data source
* `name` - (Required) The name of the tunnel.
* `description` - (Optional) The description of the tunnel.
* `session_mode` - (Required) Mode of the tunnel session (SERVER or CLIENT)
* `enabled` - (Optional) State of the `SERVER` session, always set to `true` for `CLIENT` 
  sessions. Default is `true`.

> * `connector_initiator_mode` - (Required for `SERVER` sessions) Mode in which 

Author: Updated, thanks

> * `connector_initiation_mode` - (Required for `SERVER` sessions) Mode in which 
>   the connection is formed. Only relevant to `SERVER` sessions. One of:

Reviewer 2: Formalizing (we actually keep the part between parenthesis quite structured):

```suggestion
* `connector_initiation_mode` - (Optional) Mode in which the connection is formed. Required for `SERVER` mode sessions. One of:
```

	* `INITIATOR` - Local endpoint initiates tunnel setup and will also respond to 
  incoming tunnel setup requests from the peer gateway.
	* `RESPOND_ONLY` - Local endpoint shall only respond to incoming tunnel setup 
  requests, it shall not initiate the tunnel setup.
	* `ON_DEMAND` - In this mode local endpoint will initiate tunnel creation once 
  first packet matching the policy rule is received, and will also respond to 
  incoming initiation requests.
* `local_endpoint_ip` - (Required) The IP address corresponding to the Edge 
  Gateway the tunnel is being configured on. The IP must be sub-allocated 
  on the Edge Gateway.
* `remote_endpoint_ip` - (Required) The IP address of the remote endpoint, which 
corresponds to the device on the remote site terminating the VPN tunnel.
* `tunnel_interface` - (Optional) The network CIDR block over which the session 

>   interfaces. Relevant only for SERVER session modes. If not provided, Cloud 

Reviewer 2: I like "SERVER/CLIENT session mode" usage here, because it is clearer that we're referring to `session_mode` field in practice. All my comments in this review relate to this.

Reviewer 2: Thank you for all the polishes. Approving the PR 👍

  Director will attempt to automatically allocate a tunnel interface.

> * `pre_shared_key` - (Required for `SERVER` sessions) The key that is used for 
>   authenticating the connection, only needed for `SERVER` sessions.

Reviewer 2: Formalizing:

```suggestion
* `pre_shared_key` - (Optional) The key that is used for authenticating the connection. Required for `SERVER` mode sessions.
```

Author: Updated, thanks

* `peer_code` - (Optional) Encoded string that contains the whole configuration 
  of a `SERVER` session including the pre-shared key so it is user's 

>   responsibility to secure it. Computed for `SERVER` sessions, required for 
>   `CLIENT` sessions. See [example](#example-usage) 

Reviewer 2: Just trying to make it easier for the new users of L2 VPN to grasp that this is about `session_mode` field:

```suggestion
  responsibility to secure it. Computed for `SERVER` mode sessions, required for 
  `CLIENT` sessions. See [example](#example-usage) 
```

Author: Updated, thanks

  for a solution implemented fully in Terraform.
* `stretched_network` - (Optional) One or more stretched networks for the tunnel. 
  See [`stretched_network`](#stretched-network) for more detail.

## Stretched network

* `network_id` - (Required) Network ID of a routed network on the Edge Gateway. 
  Can be looked up using [`vcd_network_routed_v2`](/providers/vmware/vcd/latest/docs/data-sources/network_routed_v2) 
  datasource.
* `tunnel_id` - (Optional) Tunnel ID of the network on the tunnel, required for 

>   `CLIENT` sessions, computed for `SERVER` sessions.

Author: Fixed, thanks
